 



*Slots* can be *accessed* in two ways: by use of the primitive function **slot-value** and by use of *generic functions* generated by the **defclass** form. 



The *function* **slot-value** can be used with any of the *slot* names specified in the **defclass** form to *access* a specific *slot accessible* in an *instance* of the given *class*. 







 



 



The macro **defclass** provides syntax for generating *methods* to read and write *slots*. If a reader *method* is requested, a *method* is automatically generated for reading the value of the *slot*, but no *method* for storing a value into it is generated. If a writer *method* is requested, a *method* is automatically generated for storing a value into the *slot*, but no *method* for reading its value is generated. If an accessor *method* is requested, a *method* for reading the value of the *slot* and a *method* for storing a value into the *slot* are automatically generated. Reader and writer *methods* 



are implemented using **slot-value**. 



When a reader or writer *method* is specified for a *slot*, the name of the *generic function* to which the generated *method* belongs is directly specified. If the *name* specified for the writer *method* is the symbol name, the *name* of the *generic function* for writing the *slot* is the symbol name, and the *generic function* takes two arguments: the new value and the *instance*, in that order. If the *name* specified for the accessor *method* is the symbol name, the *name* of the *generic function* for reading 



the *slot* is the symbol name, and the *name* of the *generic function* for writing the *slot* is the list (setf name). 



A *generic function* created or modified by supplying :reader, :writer, or :accessor *slot* options can be treated exactly as an ordinary *generic function*. 



Note that **slot-value** can be used to read or write the value of a *slot* whether or not reader or writer *methods* exist for that *slot*. When **slot-value** is used, no reader or writer *methods* are invoked. 



The macro **with-slots** can be used to establish a *lexical environment* in which specified *slots* are lexically available as if they were variables. The macro **with-slots** invokes the *function* **slot-value** to *access* the specified *slots*. 



The macro **with-accessors** can be used to establish a lexical environment in which specified *slots* are lexically available through their accessors as if they were variables. The macro **with-accessors** invokes the appropriate accessors to *access* the specified *slots*. 



